Hello everyone.
In this video we are going to complete our client area feature so down at the very bottom of our Web
site.
We're going to add the area where visitors can type in the secret password to see the secret content.
Let's get started.
So if you're not already running your web backed task Be sure to run NPM run Dev.
All right let's begin by creating a javascript file that will insert the necessary each CML down at
the bottom of our page.
So within app Assets Scripts and then in the modules folder let's create a new file.
The name could be anything but just so you and I are on the same page.
Let's name it.
Client area dot J.S. inside this file let's start a class.
Client area curly brackets down below that let's export that class from this file.
So export default client area.
Let's give this a save.
And now before we forget let's go import this file within our main JavaScript file.
So within our app dot J.S. towards the top your let's import it import client area from quotes dot slash
modules slash client area.
Okay.
And then let's just be sure to create a new instance of new client area.
Cool.
Let's give that a save and then jump back in the client area.
J.S. within our class let's create a constructor parentheses curly brackets.
Okay.
Inside the constructor let's begin by calling a method that we will name inject HDMI out.
So this dot inject HDMI all parentheses to call it.
Now below the constructor let's create a method with that matching name.
Inject HDMI all parentheses curly brackets and let's just insert a bit of H T.M. out the very bottom
of the page so document dot body dot insert adjacent H PML parentheses to call that the first argument
is before and comma.
And the second argument will be to back takes in between these two we are free to include HDMI out so
you can even dropdown in between them.
Okay.
Now instead of spending a bunch of time typing out the HDMI all at this point I don't feel like that
would be very educational.
So instead if you pause this video and look in the associated resources for this lesson you'll see a
file that you can download.
So it should say reference HDMI L or example HDMI or copy and paste HDMI out.
So again go ahead and take a moment to copy that into your clipboard and then within these back ticks
just go ahead and paste OK.
Let's give this a save and then if we jump back over to the web browser at first it looks like nothing
changed but if I scroll down there we see the new content.
Now before we write the javascript to make this form talk with our cloud function let's first write
a bit of CSX to fix this positioning and sizing.
So do this with me back in app assets styles let's create a new file in the modules folder let's name
it underscore client dash area dot CSX.
Before we forget let's include this file within our main style sheet.
So in styles dot CSX down at the bottom.
Import modules underscore client area semicolon.
Save that.
Let's jump back into client area CSX.
Let's set up our baseline rule or selector so Doc client dash area code in the brackets.
Let's begin by giving it a bit of padding 30 pixels.
Then let's create a rule inside this rule.
So Ampersand underscore underscore form curly brackets.
Let's tell that to use flex box display flex.
After that rule but still within our overall rule it's again create a new sub rule so Ampersand underscore
underscore input.
Curly brackets we want that to take up all of the available extra space.
So just tell it to flex with the value of one and then one more rule Ampersand underscore underscore.
Error curly brackets give that a color of red.
Let's give that a save.
And back in the browser.
Cool.
I think this looks better at this point let's switch our focus back to JavaScript.
Now before we write JavaScript to communicate with our cloud function we first need to capture the event
of this form being submitted.
So do this with me back in our client area dot J S file within our constructor let's select a few elements
from the dom.
So let's create a few properties.
Let's say this dot form should equal.
And then just select the HDL form element so document dot query selector.
It has a class of client dash area underscore underscore form while we're at it let's also create a
property that points towards the input field.
So let's say this dot field equals.
And you could just copy and paste this to save a bit of typing only instead of underscore underscore
form its underscore underscore input and let's also create one more property that points towards this
empty div.
Inside this empty div we want to display either these successful secret HCM l content or the red error
text that says sorry that password is incorrect.
So let's select this div up here we can create a property.
Let's say this dot content area equals again you can just recycle this code to save typing so you could
paste that in instead of underscore underscore form its underscore underscore content dash area.
OK at this point let's create a new method.
So below the constructor and let's name this new method events parentheses curly brackets at the very
end of our constructor.
Let's be sure to call the events method.
So this dot events parentheses now in the events method we just want to listen for this.
Each PML form element being submitted.
So this dot form dot ad event listener to type of event we're listening for is not click but this time
it is submit comma.
The second argument is a function that we want to run in response to this event.
Let's give it an arrow function with exactly one parameter so a parameter of E.
Arrow symbol curly brackets I will dropdown first let's prevent the default behavior of submitting an
HDMI form right.
Because by default when you submit this form if I enter a value of ABC 1 2 3 and click submit you'll
see that the browser performs a full page reload or refresh.
This is not what we want.
It also added a question mark at the end of the U.R.L. let me get rid of that.
OK.
Instead we want to use javascript to handle this form being submitted in other words we want to prevent
this default or traditional behavior.
So within the body of our arrow function we can just say e dot prevent default.
OK.
Right below that.
Let's call a method that doesn't exist yet but one that we will create in just a moment.
So let's say this dot.
We could make up any name but just so we're on the same page.
Let's call it send request.
OK.
Now let's go create a method with this matching name.
So maybe right here we can just say send request parentheses curly brackets and this is where we will
actually communicate with our cloud function.
Now we could use the web browsers fetch functionality to send off an asynchronous request but I actually
like to use a third party package named axioms.
I just feel like it's syntax is a lot cleaner and easier to work with than the fetch API.
I must not be alone in that sentiment because you can see from the NPM page 4 axioms just in the last
week it was downloaded six point three million times.
So right now let's do this within our command line let's press control C to stop our web pack dev server
and let's install a package.
So let's run npm install act.
We do not need dash dash save Dev because this is a direct dependency of our app that we want visitors
to have to download.
So go ahead and press enter
okay.
Then let's start our web pack dev server up again.
So NPM run Dev OK now up at the very top of this javascript file that's import in the axioms library.
So I will say import axioms from and then the NPM package name was lowercase axioms.
OK this package is great.
It makes sending off an asynchronous request.
Super easy.
So check this out.
Down in our send request method within its body we can just say act CEOs dot post right.
We want to send a post request to a U R L before we worry about filling in these parentheses at the
very end of this line.
I want you to say dot then parentheses and then at the very end of that dot catch parentheses so the
axiom is post method is going to result in a promise.
The idea with a promise is we don't know how long it's going to take right.
So communicating with our cloud function might take five milliseconds or it could take five thousand
milliseconds but eventually it's either going to complete successfully or it's going to fail.
So within the then parentheses we provide a function.
If things go as planned within catch we provide a function for if things fail let's actually begin with
the catch function so this will occur if the password does not match our desired javascript string right
because our cloud function is going to send back a status code of 4 0 1 or unauthorized.
So within the catch parentheses let's just provide an arrow function parentheses arrow symbol curly
brackets.
Now what we would want to do is add a bit of text that says that secret phrase is not correct.
Please try again so we can just say this dot content area dot inner H PML should equal and then let's
use back ticks and then let's add a bit of HDMI out.
Let's create a P for paragraph and let's give it a class of client dash area underscore underscore error.
So the text will be read inside the paragraph tag let's say that secret phrase is not correct.
Try again.
OK.
Now right below this line let's clear out the value of the input field right.
Because if someone types in an incorrect password and then they submit the form well instead of the
user having to select or backspace we should just delete that incorrect value for them so we can say
this dot field dot value should equal just an empty pair of quotes.
Also let's make sure that input field is focused so they can just begin typing again.
So this dot field and then call the focus method.
OK.
So that will run if the cloud function responds with a 4 or 1 unauthorized result.
However if we type in the correct password then the then function will run.
So let's give it an arrow function with exactly one parameter.
Let's name the parameter response so then arrow symbol curly brackets let's drop down in between.
Now if they type in the correct password we can actually delete the form from the page and then also
insert the secret content into that content area div.
So to get rid of the form we can just say this dot form dot remove.
And then below that we can say this dot content area right that same area where we would add the error
message.
In this case we are successful.
So content area dot enter each CML should now equal response dot data so this will be the value that
the cloud function responds with.
And remember we set it up to respond with a bit of each PML saying Welcome to the secret area the sky
is blue.
Two plus two equals four.
OK.
All that remains is the parentheses for post.
So inside these parentheses we want to give it to arguments.
So you could say a column would be as placeholders the first argument is the U.R.L. that you want to
send a request to.
So you can just go back to post man and that is this you are all or if you don't have postman open any
longer you can always go into your net the fire control panel jump into the project click on functions
and look for its end point value if you wanted to you could just grab from the forward slash dot net
lo fi forward so that way if you actually purchased a real dot com domain for your net lo fi site this
would be a relative link instead of an absolute link that depends on the domain.
In my case though I'm just going to grab the entire U.R.L. back in our text editor for the first argument
say quote Be sure to include the quotes and then paste in your clipboard OK.
And then for the second argument instead of this be place holder we give it an object so curly brackets
and remember and post man when we sent a bit of Jason data along with our request we just want to have
one property named password so within this empty object we can just say password colon and give it a
value of whatever the user has typed into the field.
So this dot field dot value.
OK.
And that's it.
But before we save this file I do want to point out that I misspelled value down here within the catch
function when I said this dot field.
Make sure you spell the value correctly here.
OK.
Let's save this file.
Also we're not actually going to test this functionality locally on our computer due to a web browser
security protocol named cause c o r s which stands for cross origin resource sharing this network request
would not go through.
The reason is because we would be on local host and this is a different domain.
Now I realize that in the real world you definitely want to test your code locally before pushing it
up live.
However I don't want us diving into the tangent of cause but if you really want to be able to test this
locally after this video lesson you'll find a text article with a bit of sample code so that you can
modify your cloud function so that it would be accessible from our local dev environment.
However that's not the perfect solution.
The perfect solution is to use Net lift his tool named net LA fi Dev which makes previewing all of your
code locally a piece of cake.
However we're not going to set that up because this course is not really about Natalie Fi.
We're just trying to see the bigger picture of workflow and how everything fits together.
All that is to say that we're not going to worry about previewing this locally let's just go ahead and
push it up to get hub and test it out on our net lo fi Web site.
So in the command line I will stop our web PAC task control C and then get add everything and then get
commit added clients area feature and then push get push origin master we can jump over to our net La
Vie control panel and click on deploys.
See right now it's currently building.
Okay.
A bit in the future I can see that this was successfully published.
So if I visit my public Nettlefold website and refresh down at the very bottom we see secret client
area.
If I type in a password that's incorrect on purpose and submit code that secret phrase is not correct.
Try again.
But if I type in JavaScript awesome.
Welcome to the secret area.
This means that we have completed this feature.
Now obviously our cloud function didn't do anything actually complex or super interesting.
Remember within that cloud function you can do anything.
You could talk to a database.
You could send off an e-mail anything that a server would normally do you're free to do they're actually
learning about back end or server side development is way outside the scope of this course.
I just wanted you to see the bigger picture and workflow of how the front end can communicate with the
back end.
This cloud function architecture that net defined makes so simple the set up is becoming more and more
popular each year.
Anyways that's going to bring this lesson to a close in our next lesson we're gonna change gears and
briefly talk about react react is a very popular front end library now actually taking the time to understand
react and learn how to use it is way outside the scope of this course.
However I do want to show you how we can integrate react into our web pack workflow and then if you
want to continue learning about react through other learning materials I think that would be a great
idea.
Let's keep our momentum rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.